A very significant aspect of data
management is to document, define,
implement, and test the set of
operations that are required for
a specific application.
As we'll see later in the specialization,
some operations are independent of
the type of data and some others would
require us to know the nature of the data
because the operations make use
of a particular data model.
That is the way that it is structured.
In general, there are two
broad divisions of operations.
Those that work on a singular object and
those that work on
collections of data objects.
In the first case,
an operation that crops an image,
that means extracts a sub
area from an area of pixels,
is a single object operation because we
consider the image as a single object.
One can think of many subclasses
of the second category
where the operations
are on data collections.
We briefly referred to three very
common operations that can be done
regardless of the nature of the data.
The first is to take a collection and
filter out a subset of that collection.
The most obvious case is
selecting a subset from a set.
In this example, we select circles
whose number is greater than three.
A second case is merging two collections
together to form a larger collection.
In the example shown,
two three structure data items are merged
by fusing the node with a common property.
That is two.
In the last case,
we compute a function on a collection and
return the value of the function.
So in this example,
the function is a simple count.
In the real world, this kind of aggregate
function can be very complicated.
We will come back to this issue when
we talk more about map readings, but
in this course, we'll talk about
many different data operations.
Every operator must be efficient.
That means every operator must
perform its task as fast as possible
by taking up as little memory,
or our disk, as possible.
Obviously, the time to
perform an operation
will depend on the size of the input and
the size of the output.
So, if there is an opportunity to use
concurrency where the operator can split
its data and have different threads
operate on the pieces at the same time,
it should definitely do so.
We present a simple example of
an operator we saw on the previous slide.
So this operator, called selection,
refers to choosing a subset of
a set based on some conditions.
Here we are choosing a subset of
circles whose numbers are even.
To make it more efficient,
we can take the input data and
partition it randomly into two groups.
Now, for each group,
we can concurrently run the subset
algorithm and get the partial results.
For this operation, the partial results
can be directly sent to the output
without any additional processing step.